I figured we start with
the easy stuff first,
the little bit lighter work,
which is I've got an array.
Remember, I just had that,
I should have left it open.
Remember, I have this JSON file.
This is giving me an array of objects,
and we know with an array,
the positioning of elements that's
numerically indexed sequentially, right?
Given a lowercase h, for example,
how do I find and return just this object?
That's what the lookup
functions job is to do,
is to find the element in the list and
return it.
So let's, for example,
let me do a shorter word.
I like this word, it's funny that
you can spell words like this.
All of those are single letter elements.
You can spell the word yucky, so let's
imagine that that's what we had typed in
and we somehow found those symbols, so
we're just hard cutting that for now.
And we're gonna test our
little lookup function,
we need to be able to find each
one of those symbols, okay?
So let's write some code to do that.
I'm gonna give myself some space here so
it's easier to read.
We have an array, it's not indexed on or
property named on the symbol name.
So we don't have that available to us to
just look up and say single operation,
give me the element of why we're
gonna have to look for it.
So let's just do that work.
Again remember that my suggestion is
always to write the most naïve and
straightforward implementation first,
and then optimize,
thinking of course about
optimization as you go.
But don't get wrapped up
in optimizations too early,
you do want to have a good
reference implementation.
So I'm gonna do a for of loop here to go
over, I'm sorry, not of elementSymbol.
The variable that we have is called
elements, so I'm gonna do for
(let element of element), sorry.
So each one of those is those
object in that array, and
I'm gonna say if (element.symbol),
that's the property name in there,
The a party takes care of sending
this one to us in lowercase letters.
That part is already taken care of, so
you don't need to worry
about lowercasing the input.
But you'll notice that the symbols
here are not lowercase, so
we do need to take care of to do
a case insensitive comparison,
there's a couple of
different ways to do that.
You can use a regex,
we're gonna just lowercase the symbol.
So I'm gonna say
.toLowerCase on that symbol.
I'm gonna see if it's equal to
the element symbol that was passed in.
I always get people asking me why I use
double equals instead of triple equals,
and I've got a multi-hour answer to
that in my other deep JavaScript
foundations course here.
But the simple answer is,
when I'm comparing two strings,
the double equals works exactly
the same as the triple equals, and
I just don't wanna type
the extra character.
So since I know how the types work,
I'm gonna use double equals here.
But if you want to unpack that more,
check out my other course.
Okay, so we're going to go through
this whole list of elements.
This is the most kind of naïve
algorithm we can think of.
In the worst case, we're gonna
have to go through all of them.
There's 118, so it's not like we have
to go through millions of elements in
the periodic table.
There's only 118, but in the worst case,
we have to go through all of them for
each symbol.
So if we spelled out a word
with five symbols, worst case,
we'd have to go through
about 570 something times.
Okay, so let's talk about, so once we find
the element, we know that it is matched.
All we need to do is return element, okay?
And we could probably do
an empty object return here.
We're going to assume that lookup is
never past anything that we don't
already know is that,
because all the inputs to the lookup
function come from the check function.
So it would not have given us
a symbol that we don't know is there,
which makes line 31 technically optional.
We know it's gonna find it somewhere.
But if you wanted to make this slightly
more robust, you could come up with some
kind of default thing that
returned with properties.
A default thing, maybe that's helpful for
error checking like return a default so
that it's obvious that
your thing didn't find, or
that it returned something it didn't find.
But for now, we know that the only thing
we're gonna pass to that lookup, so
I'm just gonna save that.
I'm gonna switch back over to my browser,
and I'm gonna refresh, and
it doesn't matter what I type here,
because we hardcoded it to the word yucky.
But let's just check to make
sure that we are in fact pulling
up all of those, and
that in fact was showing up correctly.
It won't all fit on the screen at once,
but there you go.
So we know the app rendering part, and
we know the lookup is working correctly.
As a little side note, one thing that
an algorithm should always be asking
themselves, and I think this is true of
really all engineering, but especially
the algorithms, we have a lookup function
that with one test worked correctly.
That does not guarantee us that it
will work under all conditions.
We can reason about, we can infer that
the conditions where it would fail
are not conditions that our
function needs to support,
which is why we left off that
return statement or default.
But that's not really a good test suite
that I ran it with one hardcoded thing and
it returned what I expected.
So we should ask ourselves at every
time that we write some implementation,
how much do I need to do to
write a test suite for this?
What is the minimum number
of work that I need to do?
And the reason I call this out,
this question of testing algorithmic work,
I've run into this problem many,
many times in my career, and
I think you will run into this problem.
If you haven't yet,
you will eventually run into this problem,
which is that you write
an implementation of something.
You write some algorithm for
something, some code to do some task,
and you want to test that it
is doing the right thing.
And the generation of
a sufficient number of
test cases is impossible to hardcode,
right?
Here, there is only 118 symbols, so
we could make a test case for
each one of those.
You could hardcode those out, or
maybe programmatically
generate those test cases.
But if our data set was in the thousands
or tens of thousands, there's no way
you're gonna probably write a test for
every one of those 10,000 different cases.
You don't necessarily need a test for
all of them, but
you need more than a couple
to have a guarantee.
That all the different variations of 1 and
2 letter and 1 symbol and
12 symbols, and is there a max?
You wanna test all of those cases.
And what you run into,
that I have run into on many occasions,
is that you run into this problem
where the only way to generate
the test cases is to use the algorithm
that solves the problem.
In other words,
you end up in this problem where you're
basically testing does 1 equal 1?
I run my code to generate all of my
possible test cases, and then I run my
code against those test cases and
they all work, is that testing anything?
Quick story, years ago, actually
before I even started teaching here,
so many years ago, I got one of
what I thought was a dream job.
I got hired to work on the developer
tools team at Mozilla for
the Firefox browser, and
this was before Firefox 4.
My starting day was the second day
of Firefox 4 being in existence.
This was way, way back in the day.
First external hire that
Mozilla made to that team, and
I thought this was gonna be awesome.
I'm gonna work on the developer tools and
get to interact with developers and
make better tools for them.
For those of you that maybe have been
around long enough, at that point,
the only developer tools in the Firefox
browser were made by a third-party,
non-Mozilla employee.
Actually, a couple of people made this,
but they were not employees of Mozilla,
and it was called Firebug.
And that was the only developer tools we
had for Firefox for many, many years and
Mozilla had finally said,
we're gonna build in developer tools.
So they'd already had a couple of internal
employees working on the task for
a little while.
I was the first external hire to the team.
And to get my feet wet, they said,
okay, we're gonna give you
a couple of bugs to fix.
And so the first bug that I
ended up tackling as an employee
there was related to the zoom.
That when you had zoomed in and
they were rendering the developer tools,
it was the developer tools
were rendering incorrectly.
And I think it was actually the overlay
where you're inspecting a DOM element and
it draws a little square around it.
The square was drawn in the wrong spot
if the page was zoomed in, so it's yeah,
it's a fairly straightforward
kind of a problem.
And so I go in, I dig into the code and
I figured out solving this bug was
actually pretty straightforward,
because there was this property
exposed on the document object
like zoom ratio or something.
And I just put in document.zoomratio
as multiplying all of the calculations
that the developer tools were doing
to draw stuff by the zoom ratio, and
boom, it worked.
Now all of my squares are being
drawn in all the right places, so
it was a couple of lines of code,
not that big a deal.
But to put in this code,
I also have to put in a test for it.
They have very strict guidelines,
no code without tests.
Right, they've got all kinds of guidelines
there, no performance regressions,
all kinds of stuff, but put in your code,
you've gotta put in a test.
I'm like, all right,
how am I going to test this?
And it turns out that there was
no independent way to verify what
the zoom ratio of the browser was from
JavaScript other than this property.
So my code is multiplying
everything by zoom ratio,
and then my test cases are dividing
everything by zoom ratio.
So I was quite literally writing
test to see if 1 equals 1, and
I submitted those tests and
they were like, yeah, that's fine.
I'm like no, it's not fine.
I had code comments like this is dumb,
these are my tests,
but this is not sufficient.
This is not actually testing anything.
We're just testing if in one
place I multiply by it and
in another place I divide by it.
This is pointless, right?
The end result of that story is that it
turned out that to write actual tests for
that required us to create this
whole mechanism by which we
could take screenshots of the page at
the zoom ratio and compare pixels.
It was bonkers,
I wrote hundreds of lines of code for
the test that took two
lines of code in the app.
And it taught me this lesson, very
painfully, that thinking about how you're
gonna test stuff as you're writing it, and
what am I gonna test this against then?
How am I going to get an independent
implementation of this to test against?
It can be challenging, and it is never
more challenging in my experience than
when we deal with algorithms.
When you start dealing with
large datasets and algorithms,
we've got people here that are into
machine learning, you know this, right?
The only code that exists to
produce the data set in question is
the code that's solving it, so
how do I use that to generate my test?
All right, so little side note on testing,
just be aware of those kinds of problems.
But we feel pretty good for
now that lookup is working, so
let's now shift our attention to
a little bit more of the heavy lifting,
which is the check function.